1402 A.D., Anatolia. After defeating the Ottomans in Aleppo, Damascus, Baghdad, Ankara, and so on, Tamerlan granted lands to his allies. But not to the Aq Qoyunlu, the so-called "White Sheep". The need stronger allies to keep their conquests. Diyar Bakr region is granted to the old enemies, the Safavids.

In 1406, the Safavids help Timurids to keep control of Tabriz against "Black Sheep".

From 1410 to 1450, Safavids and Timurids strengthen their alliance, giving a new life to the ancient Persian Empire.

1453: Fall of Constantinople and the Byzantine Empire, against Ottomans.

1458: The Catholic Pope calls for crusade to free Constantinople. Most notably France, Portugal, Venice, Naples and Aragon send heavy armies. Spain forces are split between this crusade and consolidating its “reconquista”.

The Safavid Empire rose quickly during the beginning of the XVth, Shiite Islam expended on 2/3 of Anatolia. Ottomans turned Shiite in 1458 and become Safavids allies.

The crusaders are defeated in 1462 and western armies are exterminated in Greece and Anatolia. In Spain, Grenada falls again to Morocco, helped by Ottoman fleet. The Ottoman Empire grows quickly on its West side: Vienna is conquered, as well as Torino, Geneva and Lyon. Northern Italy / Provence are occupied, with the exception of Venice, Genoa, Marseille and Milan which kept some kind of independence. Rome and the Vatican are disconnected from the Germanic Holy Roman Empire.

In the meantime, growing Russia claimed Eastern Christian leadership and, without frontal conflict against Ottomans, engaged them in a race of conquering Germanic domains. The lack of unity of Germans led to vassalization or capitulation of most of their domains, to the benefit of Russia and the Ottomans. Baltic regions, Bohemia, Poland felt under Russian armies.

In 1481, the King of England jumped into the race and took profit over dying France, by conquering Britain, North of France and Paris. In the following decade, they kept on conquering regions of Liege, Holland, Hanover and Hamburg.

In 1490, England signs a non-aggression pact with the Ottomans and Morocco.

1492: nothing special.

The first decade of the XVIth century is marked by sporadic religious wars between Christians and Muslims. The Ottomans turned into a multi-ethnic, multi-cultural Empire and abandoned Islam as state religion, in order to maintain peace on its conquered Christian lands. The decision led to a gradual deterioration of its relations with Safavids, ending up with a new war declared on 1513 between the two Empires.

Mongol and Altaic raiders were more often attracted by the wealthy Russia or Safavid Empire than China, which had considerably strengthen the Great Wall. Thus, China forces were essentially focused on defending against Japanese or Philippines piracy. Trade and new technologies were flourishing during the Ming dynasty, in the second half of the XVth century.

In the meantime, on the other side of the Pacific…

In 1515, Chinese merchants landed on Pacific's Canadian coast, and gave the name of “Taizudalu” to this new continent, named after Emperor Taizu, founder of the Ming dynasty. They opened trading posts along the coast, trading with Cheyennes, Apaches and Aztecs.

In South Taizudalu, the Incas continued their lightning expansion, pushing back the Mapuches as far as Patagonia, They built wealthy cities on the Parana and Uruguay rivers. But in 1517, the Inca Empire collapsed due to internal rivalries. It's split into 3 kingdoms:
- The Mayusuyo around Uruguay and Parana,
- The Chinchasuyo (Venezuela, Colombia, North of Ecuador)
- The Kimsantinsuyu (South of Ecuador, Andes)

The Mapuches took advantage of the situation to conquer not only Patagonia but up to Coquimbo to the Mouth of Rio Negro.

The situation became stable with these frontiers in 1521, despite sporadic conflicts between Incas and Mapuches. The “Mayus” (Mayusuyo) slowly expands to the North along the Atlantic coast.

In Central Taizudalu, Aztecs and Chibchas fight for the Caraïbs.
